Soft Pretzels
Desert
4 teaspoons active dry yeast
1 teaspoons white sugar
1.25 cups warm water (45 degrees C)
5 cups all-purpose flour
.5 cups white sugar
1.5 teaspoons salt
1 tablespoon vegetable oil
.5 cup baking soda
4 cups hot water
.25 cup kosher salt (for topping)
;;
12 Servings
Time 2:10
In a small bowl, dissolve yeast and 1 teaspoon sugar in 1 1/4 cup warm water. Let stand until creamy, about 10 minutes.
In a large bowl, mix together flour, 1/2 cup sugar, and salt. Make a well in the center; add the oil and yeast mixture. Mix and form into a dough. If the mixture is dry, add one or two more tablespoons of water. Knead the dough until smooth, about 7 to 8 minutes. Lightly oil a large bowl, place the dough in the bowl, and turn to coat with oil. Cover with plastic wrap and let rise in a warm place until doubled in size, about 1 hour.
Preheat oven to 450 degrees F (230 degrees C). Grease 2 baking sheets.
In a large bowl, dissolve baking soda in 4 cups hot water; set aside. When risen, turn dough out onto a lightly floured surface and divide into 12 equal pieces. Roll each piece into a rope and twist into a pretzel shape. Once all of the dough is shaped, dip each pretzel into the baking soda-hot water solution and place pretzels on baking sheets. Sprinkle with kosher salt.
Bake in preheated oven until browned, about 8 minutes.
--
Ham And Potato Soup
Soup
3.5 cups peeled and diced potato
.33 cups diced celery
.33 cups finely chopped onion
.75 cups diced cooked ham
3.25 cups water
2 tablespoons chicken bouillon granules
.5 teaspoons salt (or to taste preference)
1 teaspoon ground white or black pepper (or to taste preference)
5 tablespoons butter
2 cups milk
;;
8 Servings
Time :45
Combine the potatoes, celery, onion, ham and water in a stockpot. Bring to a boil, then cook over medium heat until potatoes are tender, about 10 to 15 minutes. Stir in the chicken bouillon, salt and pepper.
In a separate saucepan, melt butter over medium-low heat. Whisk in flour with a fork, and cook, stirring constantly until thick, about 1 minute. Slowly stir in milk as not to allow lumps to form until all of the milk has been added. Continue stirring over medium-low heat until thick, 4 to 5 minutes.
Stir the milk mixture into the stockpot, and cook soup until heated through. Serve immediately.
--
Spanish Potato Omelet
Entree
.5 cup olive oil
.5 pound potatoes, thinly sliced
1 teaspoon of salt and pepper (or to personal taste)
1 large onion, thinly sliced
4 eggs
2 tomatoes (peeled, seeded, and coarsly chopped)
2 green onions, chopped
;;
6 Servings
Time 1:00
In a large frying pan or skillet, heat olive oil over medium-high heat. Sprinkle potatoes lightly with salt and pepper. Cook until golden brown and crisp.
Once the potatoes are golden, stir in the onions. Cook, stirring occasionally, until onions soften and begin to brown.
Meanwhile, beat eggs together with salt and pepper. Pour eggs into pan and stir gently to combine. Reduce heat to low and cook until eggs begin to brown on the bottom.
Loosen bottom of omelet with a spatula, invert a large plate over the pan, and carefully turn the omelet out onto it. Slide the omelet back into the pan with the uncooked side down. Cook until eggs are set. Garnish omelet with tomato and green onion and serve warm.
--